<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>
    Exam Questions Week 1
</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>
        Write 10 questions and answers on the readings.
    </h1>
    <p>
    
    Q1. Match the terms to which layer they belong. (Answers can be found throughout the text, but a nice little example is on page 189)
     
         a. Packet                                             1. Transport Layer
         b. Datagram                                           2. Both Layers
         c. Segment                                            3. Network Layer
         
         A. a -> 2
            b -> 3
            c -> 1
            
            
            
    Q2. DNS is hierachical by design, but theoretically could work on just a single server. What are three of the four primary reasons
        a single server design isn't used? (Answers on pages 133 -134)
        
        A. Maintenance (one server would have to be updated every single time theres a new host), Single Point of Failure (if the server
           goes down, the whole internet goes down with it), Traffic Volume (this one single server would have to handle millions of users),
           and a Distant Centralized Database (Distance from the server means more users traveling through slow, congested links).
            
            
            
            
    Q3. When a peer in a torrent is trying to determine which chunks of data to request from its neighbors, how does it determine which
        chunks to request first?
         
        A. First, it will only request chunks that it doesn't already possess. Then, the peer chooses (what it determines to be) the
            rarist chunk first, where the rarist chunk is the chunk that the least number of its neighbors possess. That way, chunks
            are more likely to continue to spread to everyone.
            
            
            
    Q4. Each port is a 16-bit number between 0 and 65535. However, some of these ports are restricted for only certain use. What are these
     ports called, and what are their port numbers? (Answer on page 192, or our class discussions)
     
         A. Ports 0 to 1023 are restricted, and considered 'Well-Known Ports'.
         
         
         
         
     Q5. There are two main approaches to dealing with congestion control. End to End Congestion Control, and Network-Assisted Congestion
         Control. Briefly explain the difference between them, and which one TCP uses. (Answer on page 266)
         
         A. In End to End Congestion Control, the network layer does nothing to help with congestion control for the transport layer.
            Instead, the end systems themselves have to determine when a network is congested, based on wether packets are being lost,
            or delayed. In Network Assisted Congestion Control, routers continually provide information to the sender about the state of
            congestion in the network. TCP uses End to End Congestion Control.
         
    
    
    Q6. Almost every major internet application uses TCP over UDP, for a huge multitude of reasons. Many firewalls even block the majority
        of UDP traffic. However, Skype (and some other online application services) still prefers to use UDP over TCP, and will only use TCP
        if UDP communication fails. Given all of TCP's benefits, why would they ever choose to use UDP at all? (Answer on page 96)
        
        A. TCP suffers from header overheads. In addition, TCP has congestion control. While congestion control is great, Skype requires a
           minimal rate, and if congestion control forces it to be slower, that could seriously impact the applications useability. Since
           Skype calls can tolerate some loss, they would prefer using UDP instead of TCP in most cases.
           
           
           
    Q7. Which of these DNS message fields uses exactly 12 bytes? (Answer can be found on page 140 and 141)
               a. Answer Section
               b. Additional Section
               c. Question Section
               d. Header Section
               e. Authority Section
         
         A. d, the Header Section. All of the other sections vary in size, but the header always stays the same.       
   
         
         
    Q8. The World Wide Web was created between 1989 and 1991 by Tim Berners-Lee. In particular, Berners-Lee and his group developed
        early versions of four 'key components' of the web. What are those components? (Answer on page 64).
        
        A. HTML, HTTP, a Web Server, and a Browser.
        
        
        
        
    Q9. (Now for my painfully easy question of the week...) True or False? A TCP connection provides a full duplex service, allowing
        data to flow from host A to host B at the same time data flows from host B to host A, allows for multi-casting, allowing the
        transfer from one sender to many receivers with one send operation, and is connection oriented. (Answers page 232)
         
        A. False. TCP does infact provide a full-duplex service, but it is point-to-point, meaning that multi-casting isn't possible.
            That being said, it is connection oriented, requiring a 'handshake' before data can be transferred.   
         
         

    Q10. In a TCP connection, what happens when an application receives data that it cannot immediately read, due to being occupied
         with other tasks? (Answer on page 250)
     
         A. The data is kept in that applications 'receive buffer', where it will be read when the application gets the chance to do so.
            If, however, the receive buffer is full, continuously sending data could result in overflow. Thankfully, TCP has flow control,
            which will tell the sender to stop sending data if the receive buffer would overflow.
            
     
    </p>
</body>
</html>
