
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>
    Wire Shark Report
</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>
        Write a report on an exercise with Wireshark (choose one of the exercises that was given to you).
        In these exercises, take the role of a teacher. For all parts of this exercise, write for a student who is visiting
        our class for the first time. You may presume that the visitor has completed courses that are prerequisites for
        CSC317 Computer Networks. 
    </h1>
    <p>
            Hello! I'm here to show you how to use an interesting tool we've been working with in Computer Networks, Wireshark.
        Wireshark is whats called a 'packet sniffer'. Packet sniffers are a tool that can read, copy, and then show us those
        copies, of 'packets' of data being sent through a network. Packets are basically little bundles of data that can
        contain all sorts of information. While packet sniffers can be extremely useful tools, I'm sure you can guess that they
        can be used for fairly awful things. The data they copy and display could contain passwords, Social Security Numbers,
        that sort of thing. And since packet sniffers don't directly interact with any of the packets, but merely make copies
        of them, they can be extremely difficult to detect. While that data is still normally safe (things of that nature are
        almost always encrypted), its still important that we understand how packet sniffers work, so we can use them for their
        intended purpose and stop those from using it for nefarious ones.
            Lets get started. To begin, if you are currently using Windows, you'll need to log in as a computer science student
        using Ubutu. To do that,  restart the system on one of the computers in the computer science lab, and before windows
        boots you should see a black screen with a few options. One is Windows, the second one down is Ubutu. Select Ubuntu
        using the arrow keys and Enter. Once Ubuntu boots, log in with username: compsci and the password (which I won't
        reproduce here. Ask your professor.). We have to log in with this account instead of our own, because using
        Wireshark requires certain permissions that the compsci user has, and students do not.
            Once you have logged in, you should see the desktop. The first thing we're going to want to do is open up
        Wireshark. To do this, click the search button. Its the strange looking icon in the top left of your screen. Search
        for Wireshark, and click the fin icon. Once the program is open, search again for your internet browser of choice,
        enter moodle, and follow the forum link to the Wireshark labs. Over the past week or so I've been through several of
        these, including the DNS,TCP, and UDP ones, but I think the HTTP one is probably the best way to get started (well,
        perhaps excluding the 'Getting Started' lab, but I went over that one last week, so...).
            Look at the lab, and notice the link to a webpage. We'll be using that link in just a second. So to start, we'll
        begin capturing packets. Double click 'eno1' to start capturing. Once we start capturing, you'll start seeing lines
        coming in. These lines are packets, and any of them can be clicked to get a closer look at them. For the time being
        though, look at the box above that says 'Apply a display filter...'. This box lets us filter which packets we see.
        Since we're only interested in HTTP packets right now, type in 'http' into the box, without the quotations.
            Once we only see http packets, click on the link in the lab. This will cause two packets to appear in Wireshark,
        one with the Info 'Get' (This is the GET message) and one with the info 'HTTP' (this is the RESPONSE message).
        Once you see those two lines, stop packet capture by hitting the red square in the top left corner. If you click on
        either one, you'll be able to see more information about that particular packet near the bottom of the screen.
        (You'll also notice a screen containing ASCII and a bunch of seemingly random numbers. Just shrink that down to nothing
        for now). You can get more info on any of the lines with an arrow by simply clicking the arrow. This will cause a drop-
        down list to appear, with more info on that subject. Since we're doing the HTTP lab, click on the arrow next to 'HTTP'.
            Lets take a look at this info to answer some of the lab questiosn. First, lets see what version of HTTP ourselves
        and the server are running. If you've displayed additonal HTTP info in wireshark, you'll be able to see in the very
        next line which version they're running. Clicking through both the GET and RESPONSE messages show the same thing,
        HTTP/1.1. This tells us that both the server and the ourselves are using HTTP 1.1, not 1.0. Next, lets look at our IP
        address and the IP address of the server. If you look at the GET message, and take a look at the Internet Protocol
        line, you should see two IP adresses, one from src (source) and another from dst (destination). Since this is the GET
        message, the source is our IP address, and the destination is the servers. Finally, lets take a look at what the
        status code was. We can actually tell this directly from the info line. If you look at the response message, you'll
        see '304 Not Modified'. This is the status code it returned to us. If you ever see a code you aren't familiar with,
        googling the three numbers and the words following it will almost certainly bring you to what the code means.
        Finally, if you look at both the GET and response messages, you can see that the last time they were modified was
        the time you captured them. That's because the server is setting the 'last modified' time to be the current time.
            Next, we're going to be moving on to part 3 of the lab. We're skipping part two, as it mostly just goes over what
        was mentioned above. Part three, however, is supposed to show what happens when you retrieve a very long HTML file. So, close
        Wireshark and reopen it as before. Begin capturing packets, and then follow the new link in the lab. Stop capture, and
        filter for HTTP as before. Once again, we see a Get and Response message. Now this is where things get a little strange
        for me, as supposedly you're supposed to get multiple packets back, but I only ever receive one, no matter how many
        times I've attempted this section of the lab. Regardless, if it runs smoothly for you, you should receive many packets.
        TCP packets can only handle so many bytes at one time, and so it breaks it down into many packets. In Wireshark, only
        one of those packets should give you the status code and phrase to the request.
            Lets move on to part four, where we deal with downloading embedded objects. These are things like pictures or
        videos that are stored on another server. Start up wireshark and start sniffing, then follow the link in the lab. It
        brings us to a page with two images. If you stop packet capture, and once again filter for HTTP, you'll notice that this
        time you sent several Get requests and got an equal number of response messages. One should be for the HTML page itself,
        the others for the images on the page (when I ran this lab the first time, I actually sent two Get requests and received
        two response messages for the kurose cover. I'm unsure why this is, but the two pairs are identical.). If you look at the
        Get requests, you'll see that their destination IP's are different, each being where that image originates. If I'm not
        mistaken, I believe the images were downloaded from the two websites in parralel. We can tell this because we send out both
        GET requests before we get either response message. Had they been serially found, we would have likely seen one Get request
        and one response message before seeing the other pair. Instead, we see two Get requeests, followed by two response messages.
            Moving on to the final part of the lab, we're going to see a site thats password protected. The lab itself will give you
        the password and username for the site it has listed (which I will not reproduce here, again, see the lab). As always,
        begin sniffing and follow to the site. Enter the log in information, and stop packet capture.
        
        
        
    </p>
</body>
</html>
